QUESTION-1

 (A) the operating system which is responsible for this environment which include multiple students to execute program simultaneously on a shared server is multi user interface 
because the multi user interface operating system allows the multiple users to perform multiple tasks simultaneously when they share the same server
 (B) the kernal is responsible for managing multiple user processes , it allows the users to perform multitasking like 1- process scheduling which is used to process the programs which should be executed first
and ,2- memory management which is responsible for allocating memory to the processes
 (C) the psuedo code for displaying child process id and parent process id
   start
          include header file (unistd.h)
          Create a new process using fork()
          if process creation fails THEN
          Print "Process creation failed"
          else if process is Child THEN
          Print "Child Process ID = Child PID"
          Print "Parent Process ID = Parent PID"
          else Print "Parent Process ID = Parent PID"
          Print "Child Process ID = Child PID"
    END


QUESTION-2

 (A) LIST OF SYSTEM CALLS
 1 to crate a file ----create()
 2 to write a file ---- write()
 3 to read a file  ---- read()
 4 to close a file ----close()
these are the system calls in file management
 (B) the purpose of file management system calls
 1 create() or open() is used to create a text file with the name 
 2 write() is used to write the text on a created text file 
 (C) pseudo code
 START
      Create/Open file "student.txt"
      if file creation fails
      Print "Error creating file"
      else
      Write "John" into the file
      Close the file
      end if
      Print "Data written successfully"
 END


QUESTION-3

 (A) 1-open() – Open the source file.
     2-creat() with O_CREAT – Create the destination file.
     3-read() – Read data from the source file.
     4-write() – Write data to the destination file.
     5-close() – Close both files.
 (B) 1. read()---Reads data from the source file into a buffer.
                 Returns the number of bytes read.
    2. write()---Writes data from the buffer into the destination file.
                 Returns the number of bytes written.
 (C) START
          Open source file in read mode
          Create destination file in write mode
          wlhile data is available
          Read data from source file
          Write data to destination file
          end while
          Close source file
          Close destination file
          Print "File copied successfully"
     END


QUESTION-4

 (A) 1-FORK() - it is used to create a child procss which is a copy of parent process
     2-EXCE() - it is used to replace the current process
 (B) role of WAIT() system call
  the WAIT() system call is used to execute the child process by stopping the parent process
 (C) pesudo code 
    START
          Create a child process using fork()
          if Child Process THEN
          Execute a new program using exec()
          else
          Wait for the child process to finish using wait()
          Print "Child process completed"
          end if
    END


QUESTION-5
(A) IMPORTANCE OF FILE MANAGEMENT
    file management is responsible for organizing, storing,and protecting files on secondary storage
    1-Organizes files and directories efficiently.
    2-Stores data permanently for future use.
    3-Allows users to create, read, write, rename, and delete files
(B) PUEPOSE OF OPEN() CLOSE() SYSTEM CALLS
    1-open()
     Opens an existing file (or creates one if required).
     Returns a file descriptor used for file operations.
    2-close()
     Closes the opened file.
     Releases the file descriptor and system resources.
 (C) pseudo code
     START
          Open the file in read mode
          if file cannot be opened
          Print "Error opening file"
          end if
          Read data from the file
          Display the data
          Close the file
     END

